---
layout: post
title: Cherish Parenting
subtitle: Role: UI/UX intern, solo designer
cover-img: /assets/img/fine_art/bright_lights.JPG
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [ui, ux, design]
---

![Ghosts]
(/assets/img/fine_art/ghosts.JPG)

# Intro

Familial relationships (biological and otherwise) make up the backbone of our society and affect almost every aspect of an individual’s life. A lot of my friends’ lives have been intensely impacted by their parents’ values, and in some cases poor parenting can lead to fatal results. On the other side of things, parenting can be incredibly scary. Oftentimes, so much advice is thrown at parents that they can find it difficult to know who to trust. 

# Problem 
Since most parenting guides are targeted toward parents of toddlers, parents of teens often lack a source of scientific, expert-validated content to which they can turn when they have questions on topics such as mental health. Therapy is often expensive and out of reach, limiting parents’ support networks.

# Solution

Design a content bank, interactive modules, and parent coaching feature that cater to the unmet pain points of parents of teens and create real behavioral change in parents and their relationships with their children.

# Research

While many parents rely on networks such as friends and family to advise them on child-rearing, this is entirely dependent on parents having this network or access to such a network. Through user interviews, secondary research, and quantitative surveys, I saw the need for easy access to a well-researched, carefully compiled content bank specifically catering toward the unique issues that arise with parenting adolescents.

## Qualitative Research

Interviews → interviews + card-sorting pain ranking activity → interviews + storyboards → lo-fi prototype testing → mid-fi prototype testing → high-fi prototype testing (currently here)

I wrote interview scripts and interviewed 4 people—3 were parents of teens, and 1 was an adolescent behavioral psychologist. With the psychologist, I specifically wanted to get her perspective on issues that she felt like were severe enough that parents would need help with them, but not severe enough that they should seek therapy instead of turning to another source. I noticed a few common findings among them:

> “It would be nice if we had some tools under our belt to help us guide our children and also have a good relationship with them.”

> “I just want my child to be happy.”

> “It’s hard to let go of control and trust my teen will be okay.”

> “I wish my child would listen to me.”

> “I get stressed if I feel like I’ve let them down. I constantly feel like I’m running against the clock, like the teens are going to be out of the house soon and what if they can’t take care of themselves?”

> “I want more parents to focus on conflict resolution and perspective taking.” --psychologist

While synthesizing our results, my team and I also used such measures as empathy and affinity mapping.

> **Expectations and difficulties with parenting were often linked to socioeconomic factors.**

From looking over and synthesizing our data, I noticed that socioeconomic status heavily impacted the kinds of issues parents tended to worry about: lower-income families worried more about their children’s safety and well-being, whereas higher-income families tended to worry more about their children’s academic performance and screen time.

Moreover, parents often were not seeking advice so much as community: sometimes, they simply wanted to be able to vent to someone else who could empathize with their situation. 

# Design Decisions

Since personalization was important, we included an onboarding section that would start with the user’s “why,” focusing on their intent for using this app and the specific challenges they were facing with their teen.

From there, we created a landing page that would emphasize customization for that particular parent, as well as prioritize our content bank over the coaching/SMS option. This decision was made due to parents expressing the desire to first “dip a toe” into the service to try it out before committing to anything.

On the coach side, we developed some screens that would suggest certain responses in order to help coaches manage a higher volume of messages.

### Defining the Brand
